WI #616: Proposed change to billed cost to prevent double counting billed cost… (#780)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/billedcost.md

* The BilledCost column MUST be present in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset) and MUST NOT be null.
* This column MUST be of type Decimal, MUST conform to [Numeric Format](#numericformat), and be denominated in the BillingCurrency.

> * The sum of the BilledCost for [*rows*](#glossary:row) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period), [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account), and an invoiceId, MUST match the sum of the [*charges*](#glossary:charge) provided in the corresponding invoice with the same id.

Reviewer: - Both the billing account and billing period are covered by InvoiceId column. 
- **Charge** (in the glossary): A row in a FOCUS-compatible cost and usage dataset.

**Option A:**

> * BilledCost MUST NOT encompass costs associated with non-payment invoices.
> * The sum of the BilledCost for a given [InvoiceId](#invoiceid) MUST match the sum of the costs in the corresponding invoice when it is classified as a payment invoice.

**Option B (assuming we adjust the definition of the InvoiceIssuer ):**

> * BilledCost MUST NOT encompass costs associated with non-payment invoices.
> * The sum of the BilledCost for a given [InvoiceId](#invoiceid) MUST match the sum of the costs in the corresponding invoice when the invoice is generated by the InvoiceIssuer.

Author: @UdamDewaraja @ijurica take a look now.

* The BilledCost column MUST be present in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset) and MUST NOT be null.
* This column MUST be of type Decimal, MUST conform to [Numeric Format](#numericformat), and be denominated in the BillingCurrency.

> * The sum of the BilledCost for [*rows*](#glossary:row) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period) MUST match the sum of the payable invoices received for that *billing period* for a [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account).

Author: ```suggestion
* The sum of the BilledCost for [*rows*](#glossary:row) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period) MUST match the sum of the invoices from the [*invoice issuer*] received for that *billing period* for a [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account).
```

Author: I am putting this as a suggestion as I think that we may need to make this change. The payable part is a little problematic since the invoice issue may have non payable invoices that become payable once the period is closed out. The requirement here is pretty strong because it is saying that it must match but that won't happen till that period is complete and ready to be invoiced.

Reviewer: On that note, I believe we need to revisit this requirement as well. I think we can and should specify more precisely what we expect in the BilledCost column when the dataset comes from a DataGenerator that is not the InvoiceIssuer versus the use case where the DataGenerator is also the InvoiceIssuer. 

> * BilledCost values MUST not include cost associated to estimate invoices or no payment invoices.

Reviewer: Editorial change:

Replace `[*invoice issuer*]` with `[InvoiceIssuerName](#invoiceissuername)`

Reviewer 2: On one hand, this seems superfluous and unnecessary. \*Obviously\* invoices come from the invoice issuer.

On the other hand, I still struggle with the idea of invoice issuer because the name implies 2 entities in a reseller scenario: Who issued the invoice to the provider's customer and who issued the invoice to the end customer.

Author: The problem is that there are many vendors that generate an "invoice" but it isn't actually an invoice  that they would ever pay.  Its just a record that they generate that is invoice like.

> * The sum of the BilledCost for [*rows*](#glossary:row) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period) MUST match the sum of the payable invoices received for that *billing period* for a [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account).

Reviewer 2: We should be ambitious. Let providers/generators document the fact that they don't have 100% coverage. Sounds like an amazing win for conformance documentation, given customers struggle with these gaps today.

> * The sum of the BilledCost for [*rows*](#glossary:row) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period) MUST match the sum of the payable invoices received for that *billing period* for a [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account).

Author: The accuracy part was in the previous version.

> * The sum of the BilledCost for [*rows*](#glossary:row) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period) MUST match the sum of the payable invoices received for that *billing period* for a [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account).

Reviewer 3: SHOULD == MUST but does not and then is documented as a conformance gap. 

I don't see the point in making people go through extra hoops for ambition.

> * The sum of the BilledCost for [*rows*](#glossary:row) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period) MUST match the sum of the invoices from the [*invoice issuer*] received for that *billing period* for a [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account).

Reviewer 4: Wouldn't there be only 1 Invoice Issuer?
> > The Invoice Issuer is the entity responsible for invoicing for the resources or services consumed.

> * The sum of the BilledCost for [*rows*](#glossary:row) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period) MUST match the sum of the invoices from the [*invoice issuer*] received for that *billing period* for a [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* The sum of the BilledCost for [*rows*](#glossary:row) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period) MUST match the sum of the finalized invoice/s received from an [*invoice issuer*] for the *billing period* for a [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account).
```

Reviewer 5: would it not be better to say finalized invoice, this would negate the requirement to call out estimated invoices or unfinalized invoices.

Author: Yeah I like this.

Author: @thecloudman check out my two suggestions, tried to combine the suggestions...and get rid of that third bullet.

> * The sum of the BilledCost for [*rows*](#glossary:row) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period) MUST match the sum of the invoices from the [*invoice issuer*] received for that *billing period* for a [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account).

Author: or do you mean only 1 invoice? Invoices is plural but there really would be only 1.

> * The sum of the BilledCost for [*rows*](#glossary:row) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period) MUST match the sum of the invoices from the [*invoice issuer*] received for that *billing period* for a [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account).

Author: ```suggestion
* The sum of the BilledCost for [*rows*](#glossary:row) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period), [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account), and invoiceId, MUST match the sum of the corresponding invoices from the [*invoice issuer*] received for that *billing period* for a *billing account* when such invoices are considered complete.
```

Reviewer 6: Nit: This seems problematic. We're saying the sum of the billed cost of a billing period, billing account, and invoice id (which should result in exactly one invoice) must match the sum of the 'corresponding invoice_s_' which there shouldn't be more than one with the same ID. 

```suggestion
* The sum of the BilledCost for [*rows*](#glossary:row) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period), [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account), and an invoiceId, MUST match the sum of the [*charges*](#glossary:charge) provided in the corresponding invoice with the same id.
```

Reviewer 5: I have put in invoice/s using the / would suggest either one or  more invoices, as it is fully possible to have multiple invoices in a month, you may get an invoice for on demand Services, an invoice for a pre-purchase and invoices for marketplace all in the same billing period of which all charges will be in the FOCUS dataset but noting there would only be one invoice per invoiceID or if an invoice was re-issued a new invoiceID would relate to a previous invoiceID

> * The sum of the BilledCost for [*rows*](#glossary:row) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period) MUST match the sum of the invoices from the [*invoice issuer*] received for that *billing period* for a [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account).

Reviewer: @rileyjenk 
With my comment, I wanted to highlight that mentioning the Invoice Issuer doesn't help in addressing the issue of double counting. Since alternative suggestions (that I prefer 😄) followed, I believe this conversation can be resolved.

> * BilledCost values MUST not include cost associated to estimate invoices or no payment invoices.

Reviewer 7: Minor RFC-style fix
```suggestion
* BilledCost values MUST NOT include cost associated to estimate invoices or no payment invoices.
```

Reviewer: In line with one of the normative requirements for EffectiveCost (e.g., "EffectiveCost MUST be 0 when..."), I propose that we be more specific in this case as well:

> * BilledCost MUST be 0 when...

Regarding the condition, I don’t have a suggestion yet 😞, but I want to call out that we need to account for **provisional** billable/payable charges (and invoices), as these are also used for billable/payable invoice **estimation**, right?

Author: Yeah as I think about it this change is really insufficient, because an invoice that isn't final also is not payable...but that is not what we mean here.  I am going to hold on further changes.

Reviewer 2: Is this line necessary? BilledCost pertains to the billable cost of the row/charge. I'm not sure what an "estimate" invoice is, but I would assume it only includes rows that have not been billed yet. In which case, it should still match the cost and usage data. If it's a hypothetical invoice, then I would argue it's not an "invoice" but an "estimate" or a "quote". Either way, BilledCost as a column for a single row wouldn't be applicable there. I would just clarify that "invoices" does not include estimates and quotes in the description at the top of the doc. I don't think the other changes here are even necessary. But maybe I'm missing something.

> * The sum of the BilledCost for [*charges*](#glossary:charge) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period), [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account), and an [InvoiceId](#invoiceid), MUST match the sum of the payable amount provided in the corresponding invoice with the same id generated by the [InvoiceIssuer](#InvoiceIssuer).

Reviewer: Providing suggestion per our discussion in TF-2 on Mar-27.

```suggestion
* The sum of the BilledCost for a given [InvoiceId](#invoiceid) MUST match the sum of the payable amount provided in the corresponding invoice with the same id generated by the [InvoiceIssuer](#InvoiceIssuer).
```

**Reasoning:**

- This follows the pattern we've suggested in the normative guidelines: "The sum of {CostColumnId} in a given billing period / for a given...".

- The current wording suggests a many-to-one relationship between the InvoiceId and billing account. When we first introduced such a requirement in the InvoiceId column, there were concerns about this, so we removed it. Given that the main purpose of this requirement is invoice reconciliation, and the relationship between InvoiceIds, billing periods, and billing accounts is addressed in the InvoiceId column, this simplified version seems like a safe approach.

> * BilledCost values MUST NOT include cost associated to estimate invoices or no payment invoices.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* BilledCost values MUST NOT include cost associated to estimate invoices or any payment invoices.
```

Reviewer: Question: 
* Do we expect BilledCost to be set to 0 for these charges or not? Can we clarify this further?
* What are estimate invoices?
* Should we add "estimate invoices" and "no payment invoices" to the glossary?

Reviewer 4: - Likely 0 but needs clarification on (see last bullet)
- Need a definition we can all agree on
- Yes!  This is confusing as written and needs more details.

Reviewer 5: I don't understand this line specifically, "any payment invoices"? If we say BilledCost must be equal to finalized invoices and say BilledCost MUST NOT include costs associated to estimated invoices, this should be enough?

Author: But billedCost will include costs that are on estimated invoices until they are finalized.

> * BilledCost values MUST NOT include cost associated to estimate invoices or no payment invoices.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> * The sum of the BilledCost for [*rows*](#glossary:row) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period), [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account), and an invoiceId, MUST match the sum of the payable amount provided in the corresponding invoice with the same id, as generated by the InvoiceIssuer.
> * Billed cost MUST be zero in the case of charges where payments are received by a 3rd party, such as marketplace transactions.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* The sum of the BilledCost for [*charges*](#glossary:charge) in a given [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period), [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account), and an [InvoiceId](#invoiceid), MUST match the sum of the payable amount provided in the corresponding invoice with the same id generated by the [InvoiceIssuer](#InvoiceIssuer).
* BilledCost MUST be zero for *charges* where payments are received by a third party (e.g., marketplace transactions).
```
